Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion (Japanese: コードギアス 反逆のルルーシュ, Hepburn: Kōdo Giasu: Hangyaku no Rurūshu), often referred to simply as Code Geass, is a Japanese anime television series produced by Sunrise. It was directed by Gorō Taniguchi and written by Ichirō Ōkouchi, with original character designs by Clamp. Set in an alternate timeline, it follows the exiled prince Lelouch Lamperouge, who obtains the "power of absolute obedience" from a mysterious woman named C.C. Using this supernatural power, known as Geass, he leads a rebellion against the rule of the Holy Britannian Empire, commanding a series of mecha battles.

Code Geass was broadcast in Japan on MBS from October 2006 to July 2007. Its sequel series, Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2, ran as a simulcast on MBS and TBS from April to September 2008. The series has also been adapted into various manga and light novels, with the former showing alternate scenarios from the TV series.

Initiation, Transgression, and Glorification, a three-part compilation film recapping the events of both anime series' seasons—while also altering storylines for various characters and establishing an alternate universe[5]—was released between 2017 and 2018. A new original film titled Code Geass Lelouch of the Re;surrection, taking place after the Zero Requiem of the film trilogy's alternate universe, was released in theaters in February 2019. Code Geass: Rozé of the Recapture, an anime film series set in the same alternate universe, was announced in December 2020 as part of a 10-year plan.

Bandai Entertainment licensed most parts of the franchise for English release in December 2007, airing the series English dubbed on Adult Swim in the United States. Most manga and light novels have also been published in North America by Bandai.

Code Geass has been well received in Japan, selling over a million DVD and Blu-ray Discs. Both seasons have won several awards at the Tokyo International Anime Fair, Animage Anime Grand Prix, and Animation Kobe event. It received critical acclaim for its story, voice acting, large audience appeal, the conflicts among its main characters, and the moral questions it presented. 